Manual Analysis for Linux (#1)
sonarsource-cfamily-examples/linux-autotools-otherci-sq: README.adoc

= C++ example project manually scanned on SonarQube

It is very easy to manually analyze a C/C++/Objective-C project with SonarQube:

. Create a `sonar-project.properties` file to store your configuration
.. Add a projectKey of your project
.. Add a Build Wrapper output directory
.. https://docs.sonarqube.org/latest/user-guide/user-token/[Generate a unique token] and set it as "sonar.login"
.. Set `sonar.host.url` to your SonarQube server URL
. Download and unzip the Build Wrapper for Linux from {SonarQube URL}/static/cpp/build-wrapper-linux-x86.zip

> . Add the Build Wrapper to your `%PATH%`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add the Build Wrapper to your `$PATH`
```

. Download and unzip the https://docs.sonarqube.org/latest/analysis/scan/sonarscanner/[SonarScanner] for Linux

> . Add the bin directory of the SonarScanner to your `%PATH%`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add the bin directory of the SonarScanner to your `$PATH`
```

> . Wrap your clean build command with the Build Wrapper. E.g.: `build-wrapper-linux-x86-64 --out-dir bw-output make clean all` (with `bw-output` being the same directory that the one set in `sonar-project.properties`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Wrap your clean build command with the BuildWrapper. E.g.: `build-wrapper-linux-x86-64 --out-dir bw-output make clean all` (with `bw-output` being the same directory as the one set in `sonar-project.properties`)
```
"BuildWrapper" for consistency with "SonarScanner"

Author: I prefer being consistent with SQ documentation that uses "SonarScanner" but "Build Wrapper" if you don't mind

. Run `sonar-scanner`

> You can take a look at the link:sonar-project.properties[sonar-project.properties] and link:build-analyze-project.sh[build-analyze-project.sh] (script that downloads the `sonar-scanner` and the Build Wrapper before compiling and analyzing the project ) to see it in practice. Please be aware that the SonarQube server URLs and the `sonar.login` are not completed in these examples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can take a look at the link:sonar-project.properties[sonar-project.properties] and link:build-analyze-project.sh[build-analyze-project.sh] (a script that downloads the `sonar-scanner` and the Build Wrapper before compiling and analyzing the project) to see it in practice. Please be aware that the SonarQube server URLs and the `sonar.login` are not completed in these examples.
```
